when i first saw that my car had a
parking camera
i was thrilled then the new tesla models
blew me away
remote engine start was definitely a
feature from the future
but the stuff inside these cars makes my
little sedan
seem like a useless tin can
firemen are trained and prepared to face
any fire or explosion
and their closest friend their fire
trucks and engines
are right at their side fire trucks have
extensive tool compartments
anything that firefighters might need is
found there
they have axes and crowbars as well as
more advanced tools
like pike poles to create ventilation
holes in walls
and break windows and the jaws of life
a super strong tool to get people out of
cars
fire trucks are mostly recognized for
their large roof aerial ladders
with this tool firefighters can reach up
to 105 feet
and get to the rooftop of most
commercial buildings
additionally the ladders are equipped
with a master stream hose
that releases enough water to stop even
the scariest fires
fire trucks also have a large hose
called a deluge
designed to spray a lot of water on
large fires
the back of a truck houses the skid load
a smaller hose to use inside buildings
and a blitz line that can be used
outside
and finally the truck's bumper hides a
short hose too
for car and garbage fires that's a lot
of hoses
inside the truck's cabin firefighters
can find anything they might need
radios and mounted laptops keep the team
aware of incoming calls
and find the best route to the disaster
every firefighter has a flashlight
a handheld thermal imager and a gas
monitor
so the source of a fire or gas leak can
be found in mere
seconds there are four air tanks with 40
minutes of air
each the tanks are placed on the seats
so firefighters can easily strap them on
smoke is as deadly as the fire itself
the passenger compartment has the less
critical but still necessary equipment
such as road cones ropes radios and
other gear
however firefighters are not the only
ones at an emergency
paramedics can literally save lives and
ambulances
are complicated vehicles we all know
that ambulances have a rolling bed
an iv and a heart monitor but there's so
much more
after all an ambulance needs to be ready
for anything
every ambulance has a unique system of
restraints for patients
if medics suspect a back trauma a
special spinal board is used for
transportation
if a patient cannot breathe small
ventilators are used
forget about those plastic bags you've
seen in old movies
now paramedics just connect patients to
a machine
as an ambulance moves through busy
streets it can be hard to put an exact
amount of medicine in a syringe
that's where infusion syringe pumps are
used these machines can withdraw an
exact amount
and even help administer it to patients
at a controlled rate
but if a patient needs faster treatment
a nebulizer can help
this simple looking machine can vaporize
liquid medication into a mist
inhaling that mist provides patients
with immediate relief
for scarier events like when a patient
needs cpr
any human error can be severe so
most modern ambulances have a cpr
machine
also known as an auto pulse it can do
chest compressions with precise
frequency
and pressure finally for really huge
emergencies
such as when many patients need to be
treated and evacuated
paramedics use a particular vehicle
called an ambulance bus
what about police cars expensive and
modern technologies are used to help
policemen keep
citizens safe however the most essential
gadget in
every police car is a good old two-way
radio
this is a fast and reliable way to
connect with a dispatcher
and determine where help is needed to
reduce time
most crimes have a special code assigned
to them
this way conversations like policeman
may sound like gibberish to you but a
trained professional will hear
policemen and service urgent suspicious
vehicle
understood now that the officer knows
where to go and what to expect
he can turn on lights and sirens not
every case is urgent enough to stop
traffic
some cases may even benefit if the
police car arrives unannounced
inside the car a mobile data terminal is
simply recognized as a portable digital
computer
officers can access the police database
and fetch any vital information
on any suspect some police cars are
specifically equipped to help policemen
that work with regulating traffic
modern police cars have an automatic
number plate recognition
a camera system that scans license
plates
it can detect stolen vehicles vehicles
belonging to suspects
or vehicles with expired insurance all
using the police database
another essential tool is a speed
recognition device you've probably seen
officers holding a large gadget that
they point at cars from the roadside
that device can determine the speed of
passing vehicles
in mere seconds its new system works
automatically
and directly from the vehicle and with
the automatization of modern technology
in some countries officers do not even
need to chase the offender
in a few weeks the reckless driver will
receive an unpleasant surprise in the
mail
outside there's a little dashboard
camera that records
everything outside the car this may help
identify offenders
and capture evidence the front and sides
on some cars
are also equipped with unique push
bumpers that can help
officers push a pursuit car off-road
with minimal damage to cars and people
[Music]
however if you are not impressed with
those high-tech vehicles
let me present the car of the president
of the united states
the beast of modern car technology no
it's
literally nicknamed the beast the
president of the united states is the
most crucial figure in the country
they therefore need to be protected at
all times
that's why their car looks like
something straight out of an expensive
blockbuster spy movie
the beast weighs around fourteen
thousand pounds
compared to a camry weighing only thirty
two hundred
and most of its weight comes from the
car's armor
made from steel aluminum titanium and
ceramic
the car's armor is eight inches thick
in addition to the armored body the
windows are also extremely durable
they're made out of 5-inch thick
bulletproof glass
the interior is also sealed off in case
of a chemical attack
the fuel tank is armor-plated as well in
case of small fires or collisions
moreover the beast's trunk is filled to
the brim with equipment for
any situation besides firefighting
equipment
and oxygen tanks there are also two
pints of the president's blood type
now for functionality the car has seven
seats
most of the time only three are occupied
the front seats are occupied by the
driver and the lead secret service agent
the president himself is in the back
there's also one seat beside the
president
occupied by his guest usually the first
lady and three more
rearward-facing spots how do you get to
drive such a fantastic vehicle
to sit behind the wheel of the beast you
need to undergo
extensive training on a military base
under serious supervision
the driver learns how to evade attacks
and escape
the most dangerous situations
unfortunately
unless you become the president there's
no way to see the car
after a new model is created the old one
is completely destroyed to protect the
creations technology